A lot of times you drop your ruck in first and then
you come down on top of it rather than have it on your
back because of the extra weight and stuff like
that. But we normally in our missions we carry what
they call just like the fights where you go with
just a shoulder harness type thing with a couple of
canteens and a couple of rounds of ammunition,
cases of ammunition and stuff. So we really didn't
carry that much. I walked point quite often in the
jungle area where it was very dense in the
mountains and stuff especially. I walked point
with a 12-gauge shotgun. Most of the time I carried
an M16, but in cases where it was real dense jungle
where we were actually cutting our way through
with machetes and stuff, you'd walk point with
something that would kill in a short area. At one
time I carried a grease gun, which was an automatic
.45 caliber gun. thing which only is only deadly at
about 50 yards or less you know it doesn't have a
very long distance on it i always carried a 45
caliber pistol you know standard service issue
pistol uh most of the time carried the m16 but it
just depended on the situation i carried m60 a
little bit i was a little bit small for carrying it
but i carried it a few times when when you walked
point did you um Did you ever carry your rucksack?
Yeah. No matter where you were, you carried your
stuff. Do you ever felt like that was ineffective
and bundled you down? Did you learn how to work with
that? You learned you had to carry what you had.
Nobody would carry your food for you or your water.
If you wanted food and water, you carried it
yourself. Some guys lived on less than others. At
times, after I really got orientated in the
country, we would actually go up to rivers or blue
lines we call them and throw a hand grenade in the
river and kill fish and we actually eat fish or rice
like the locals and therefore we wouldn't be
smelling any different from what the Vietnamese
would smell you know any kind of odor anything
given off is from cooking if we were cooking you
know our sea rations or something you know you
could smell that and it was definitely a different
odor so a lot of times if we knew we were going to be an
area where we could get fish or something like that
we would not take as much sea rations. So from that
standpoint we didn't have to carry near as much
stuff. When I got to the first calve we ate mostly
lerps there which is a long-range patrol which is a
dried food where all you had to do is add water to it
and you could heat your water and put it in there or
just do it cold. So really in those lerps you could
carry A lot of LURPs and almost no weight at all
because it was a freeze-dried food, so there was no
weight to it whatsoever. But those were mainly for
the special mission type stuff. Your normal
infantry units didn't get those. They had to carry
their normal cans of C-rations and stuff like
that. So it was an extra weight type deal. But, you
know, it just depended on the mission and the
length of time. Sometimes after a couple of weeks
out in the field, they'd drop us a new set of
clothes, and, you know, we'd get different
changes of, you know, stuff, boots or socks or
whatever, you know, that way. Did the new set of
clothes have a detergent smell to them? Oh, they
weren't new. They were just... They were clean, I
guess. Let me put it that way. They drop a bundle of
clothes, and you dig out something that might fit
you, and you put it on. But it was clean clothes.
After two or three weeks without bathing, you
start smelling real bad, and your socks stand up by
themselves and stuff like that. But there again,
you get used to it, and it really doesn't affect you
a whole lot. That was something that a lot of guys
accepted that a lot easier than others, but it's
something you just have to accept and realize you
can go now. There were some areas we could bathe in
the streams and rivers and try to keep clean, but,
you know, you just go and go and go, and, you know,
you don't really worry about your personal
hygiene. You worry about staying alive. Did the
company, somebody in the company ever carry a
motor or any, what kind of other weapons did you
carry other than personal weapons? Well, they
carried, like I was saying earlier, a lot of people
carried the laws. They carried 20-millimeter
guns. grenade launcher type things. The M60
machine gun, every squad had an M60 guy. Some guys
carried other type of hand things, but probably
the M60 was the biggest, you know, probably did the
most damage type thing. You know, they carried
rounds and rounds of that, and usually the ammo
from that, you'd either carry it in a hand metal
canister, or they would hook it together and cross
it across your chest, just like a You know, you see
your banditos or whatever carry their, you know,
strings of ammo. And usually carrying on your
chest was easier because you had your hands free.
And if you had to hand carry a pouch of ammo, you
know, your hand was always taken up with something
in your hand. So they'd take it out of there and
crisscross across their chest and hook it on. Then
all they had to do was unsnap it, lay it in there, and
go. You know, it was real easy to feed in and go that
way. Normally, there was not very many. If we were
going out and definitely setting up a sniper type
thing with a starlight scope, we might carry an M14
or two. And they were a lot more accurate as a sniper
rifle. And had scopes on everything on them. Those
were strictly sniper rifles. Were they night
scopes? Starlight scope, night scope, yeah. We
had those available to us. They were really,
really nice. But that would really be the biggest
thing. Of course, the .50 cals, if we were ever
moving in a convoy on the roads and stuff, the Jeeps
all had .50 cals on them. You know, some of the
choppers had .50 cals mounted in them as door guns.
Most of them had M60s, but some of them had .50 cals.
The Chinooks had .50 cals in them. And, of course,
your choppers and stuff, a lot of those had the
20-millimeter cannons and rockets and, you know,
the machine guns and stuff set up in those. But as
far as our actual personal weaponry, it was mostly
just handguns as all we, you know, just light
weapons that we carried ourselves. What
equipment was most effective? for whatever
purpose it served in, what equipment did y'all
have to carry that was completely ineffective?
Was there any? Was it allowable to ditch what you
knew would not be effective? We pretty much could
pick what we wanted to carry. Okay. And, I mean, you
know, we all wanted to carry frags or hand
grenades. Most of us had to carry at least two
smokes. And this would be for different reasons.
We almost all had to carry at least one tear gas
grenade. What did you use tear gas for? Normally
put it down the caves or bunker complexes,
whatever you want to call them. We'd go into a
bunker complex and pop gas and put it in there. Most
of us did not carry gas masks. It wasn't prominent
or necessary. They were issued to you, but usually
you lost them real fast and didn't carry them. We
did, some guys carried them more than others, you
know, it depends on where you were in the area.
Usually, other than that, a couple of first aid
pouches and your water and food and, you know, your
own personal M16, you know, shells or whatever you
were carrying at the time that way. But you could go
back to your fire base and pretty much go over to the
ammo bunker and supply anything you wanted, carry
what you wanted. Some guys were more gung-ho than
others, and they carried a lot more stuff, but
that's something you kind of learn. And I was
fortunate that I was kind of led by the hand by a
sergeant when I first went in, and he kind of said,
you don't need this, you need this, you don't need
this, you need this, and throw this away, you don't
need that. How long had the sergeant been in there?
He'd been there for, he was on his second tour, so he
was really in his second year, I guess. Did he
volunteer for it? Oh, yeah. Yeah, he re-upped and
went back in a whole nine yards, so. And he was E5,
no, not E5, E6. He was an E6. Was he a shake and bake?
No, no, no, no. Okay. No, he had got it through the
grade type thing. He had not gone to NCO school or
nothing like that. He was just an average Joe type
guy that had moved up through the grades and not had
any schooling part or anything like that. Yeah, he
basically learned it by the seat of his pants. And
he had been higher and been demoted. You know, that
was kind of normal realm. You know, you go up and
down, up and down, and rank like crazy over there.
and well you you get article 15s you know you go out
and get drunk and shoot up somebody or something or
whatever and not only kill somebody but i mean you
know go and shoot up a something in town you might go
into one of the villages and shoot up a bar or
something like that and they oh man i'm gonna knock
two stripes off of you and demote you and then you
have to go back and two months later you get your
stripes back or something like that you know
that's our thing but those guys they they raised a
lot of you know havoc with the locals and stuff like
that but There was all kinds of reasons for going up
and down in rank. Most people, they really didn't
care a lot of what they did one way or another. They
were out there just trying to survive. When you say
most people, are you talking about? The grunts,
the infantry soldiers, yeah. What about the
leaders? The leader guys, most officers were
really intelligent people. Most of them were
college guys. Their biggest problem was they
thought they knew more than they did. They really
didn't have a, I don't know, seventh sense or
whatever you want to call it. They didn't have any
street knowledge of the jungle. They had learned
it all in a book, and they had no practical
knowledge of what they were doing. You know, you
get out there in a situation, and, you know, the
lieutenant says, well, let's charge or something
like that. And everybody looked at that guy and
said, you go ahead, brother. You go ahead. We're
sitting here. You know, we're not going nowhere.
You know, that's our thing. But, I mean, well, it
says in page six and six of the, you know, quota
deal, we're supposed to get up and run now or
something like that, you know. That was the type of
guy you'd run into, and the lieutenants
especially, they would come over and we'd call
them cherry lieutenants. And we, you know, very
seldom... kept more than weeks at a time. If they
stayed a month, they were really lucky. The
lieutenants, they would either get shot by the
enemy or possibly inflict a wound by their own
side. We'll get back to some of that stuff later. We
did sort of sidetrack here, but the equipment is
what we were originally on. And I guess to answer
the one question, you never had to take anything
that you felt was ineffective? No, no, not at all.
No, we always carried what we wanted to. There was
no forcing there. Like I said, they pretty much
wanted you to carry frags and smokes, but that was
stuff you wanted to carry anyway, so there was
really no problem there at all. As an intelligence
analyst, could you in any way, shape, or form see
the effects of the defoliant and the B-52, just the
general B-52 strikes throughout all the Ho Chi
Minh Trail and everything? Yeah, I could see the
reason for it. And as an infantry soldier, too.
Right, right. Could you yourself at that point see
the effect it had on you personally? Right. If it
did. I could see the reasoning for it. Okay.
Definitely in the thick jungles and stuff, the
defoliants, you know, if we knew there was an area
where the troop movement was heavy and, you know,
you could not find them or see them or whatever, the
only alternative you had was to go in there and
spray or call a B-52 strike. And I personally feel,
you know, and usually this area that it was done in
was a dense, dense jungle. There was no villages
near it. There was no habitat. So it wasn't
affecting anybody's livelihood or anything like
that. This is in the mountains or the middle of
nowhere. I mean, granted, it did kill stuff. I'm
not saying it was right by any means, but it
definitely had a purpose, and I think it served its
purpose well. It probably, you know, if anything,
you know, if they would have done more than what
they did, probably would have stepped things up
more, especially the B-52 strikes. Those guys,
you come in with a B-52 strike in a bumper complex,
And you'd literally wipe out companies of NVA or
something if you hit them right. Because, you
know, if the bunkers collapsed, depending on how
they were dug, you know, you'd cave in on them and
just smother them and kill them. Because that was
their livelihood was to dig in and go down. And that
was the only thing they could do would be go down. If
they stayed on the surface with a B-52 strike, they
were dead. And so it was a situation that usually
the defoliant, if you clear out an area where they
were actually at, you know they had nowhere to go
but down to so you can find the complex is a lot
easier you know so you could find that bunker
complex you could go in that bunker complex and
flush them out and that was that was like going into
their home you found out where they lived and you
can get them and you know we had fire bases which
were sitting out in the open where they always knew
where we were but we never knew where they were so
the defoliants definitely had their purpose now
granted the spraying on top of our troops and
People going into areas right after they were
sprayed and stuff, obviously with Agent Orange
issues and stuff, was not good. I personally never
got sprayed directly. I did go into areas that had
been sprayed freshly. It was obviously a very,
very toxic chemical. Some of the soldiers knew
that too. Well, we knew what it was. We knew it was a
defoliant, but we really didn't think that it
would hurt us. if you follow what I'm saying there.
I mean, you know, just like spraying bug spray at
home, you know, you know you're killing a bug, but
is this stuff going to kill me? You know, you really
never think about that too much. You know it has a
purpose. It's after killing the leaves and the
bushes and the trees so you can see, but will it
really kill you or affect you? There are people who
have never fallen dead around when it happened,
but, you know, 20 years now after the fact, there's
people affected by it, obviously. So, you know,
it's a situation that You don't think of a long
haul. You think of the immediate response. And I
think that's why it happened. They wanted
something that would work at the time. And it did.
It served its purpose well. And, you know,
personally, I think it probably was well done. You
know, there's always mistakes and incidents that
you say, oh, I wish we wouldn't have sprayed then or
we should have got those troops out at that time or
something like that. So, you know, people did get
affected by it. But overall, I think it was done
right. I don't really... see anything negative
there whatsoever. It did save American lives. I
think so. In the long run, it was definitely a
necessity. And, you know, you can't really second
guess it now because it's been so long, but you go
back and look and say, you know, those guys might
still be sitting there in those bunker complexes.
We would have never found them. But by
defoliating, we found the bunker complex or
calling B-52 strike, we were able to knock that
complex out. Speaking of bunker complexes... Was
it standard Army rules to send a guy down there
first? No, not really. That was pretty much on your
own. You pretty much, each individual squad, you
normally would, depending on the situation,
you'd call back and tell them what you found. Okay.
Okay, report in. Who do you report in to? You report
in usually to your captain or colonel. Usually it
was just like on our missions, lieutenant would be
the only officer out there with us. Okay, the
lieutenant would call in, tell the captain what
happened. The captain would tell the colonel.
They'd call back and say, okay, send some guy down
there and check it out. Or pull back and call an
artillery. Okay, so depending on the situation or
where it was, if it looked like it was a live bunker,
that there might still be people in it, we would
usually pull back and call an artillery and try to
blow it up a little bit and then go in and try to find
stuff. Or they might send dogs out to run through it
or something like that. You know, they had trained
dogs over there that did that sort of thing so you
know there was there was all kinds of different
things but no it wasn't standard procedure send
somebody down immediately we normally would back
up and call in and ask for what they want us to do
mention artillery now that that brings up a
question and the question about artillery since
you did spend so much time in the jungle Did you ever
see cases where the artillery was ineffective
because it was exploding in the treetops? Oh,
yeah. Was that frequent? Did you account for that
by saying send in twice the amount of rounds? Well,
you just kept calling for it if you needed it, and if
it blew up the trees, eventually the trees would be
blown up and it would get down to where you needed
it. Okay. So, I mean, you just had to call for more of
it. Okay. But, yes, we did see it. especially in the
real dense jungle and stuff like that. Did any of
the fragments ever hit? We would get shrapnel from
it, yes. As a matter of fact, I had one small wound in
my back from fragments from a, I think it was
probably a 105 round or something. It was an altar
we called in that hit real close to us, and just
little pieces of metal would fly up and hit you and
burn you more than anything else. It wasn't
anything severe. But that stuff would be
dangerous if you were close enough to it. And the
white phosphorus was really bad. I don't know if
you've ever seen a white phosphorus. We call them
willy peats. They come in and hit, and you see the
white smoke stuff going up. And if that stuff ever
hit you and got on your body, it would just burn
right through you. It was terrible. That's all it
was, was just heat? It was heat, white phosphorus
is what it was, the actual chemical phosphorus.
And it would be burning. When it hit, it would
explode and go out. And if that stuff, if you were
anywhere near a white phosphorus when it went off
and got on you, I mean, it would just hit you and just
start burning your skin and eating you up. On which
situations would you call in white phosphorus? If
we knew of a large concentrate of enemy on the
ground. And you had to call it in? We called in, you
know, what really beats. What we normally would
do, first couple of rounds, we'd call in marker
rounds, and they'd come in and hit. And if we knew it
was right on the money where they were, then we'd
say, okay, shell it with white phosphorus. Go for
it. And we knew, say, like, if we had them
surrounded and we knew they were there and we
wanted to get them out or kill them, we'd call in one
of these rounds of white phosphorus. And, man,
they'd just stand up and start running and
screaming, you know, just burning them like
crazy. I mean, you can see them. You know, it was
very obvious, very effective, very effective
stuff. And the purpose that it served. Yes,
definitely. Is there any equipment that we
haven't discussed that? Not really. There were
some flamethrowers that we saw every once in a
while, but this was more specialized stuff that I
didn't personally come in contact with. I saw it
several times. There was basically special units
like your mortar units. They would carry mortars
on their backs out there, and they'd set up in there
and pop mortars and stuff. They had different
things, and then the actual artillery guys had
their different cannons and stuff. The 105s and
155s would shoot stuff. And they would carry them
out there sometimes in the jungle with
helicopters and set them down and shoot. You know,
if they had to get to a special area, they'd set up a
little area and start shooting, you know, and set
up a little base of their own and, you know, form
their own little fire base. So, you know, you'd be
sitting there and if you, you know, were in an area
where they couldn't get to you by anything like
that, they might set something up to shoot or they
might call in, the Air Force might come in and, The
Air Force had what I call a push and pull, like a
Cessna had a motor in the front and back, and they
carried rockets on the wings. And those things
were really good for blowing up bridges. And then
they could come in real accurately and shoot these
rockets off these wings of these Cessnas and blow
up bridges that we'd come across. Did you ever see
any of them go down? Were they susceptible to...
Yeah, they were fairly susceptible, although
they'd fly low and fast, like the choppers. There
again, your choppers, your Actual troop
transport, Huey, wasn't that effective because
it was so slow. But they had what I call a loach,
which is a smaller chopper that carried
20-millimeter cannon and, of course, your door
gun or your either .50 caliber or your M60s machine
guns. And they were very active and fast. They were
kind of a search-and-destroy type thing. And
then, of course, the actual Cobras, the gunships
they call them, Those guys, man, they could come in
and just unbelievably put out a spray of bullets
and stuff. Usually if we were going into an area
that we felt was enemy and we had to sit down, the
Cobras would go in first and just blow up the area. I
mean, just boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, blow it
up. And then we'd come in and get out and try to
secure the area before the troop movement would
come in. But the Cobras were really... put out a lot
of firepower. They were very effective weapons.
Two things to have on your side. Yes, definitely.
All right, we're going to sort of switch subjects
here and start speaking about leaders. Okay. Who
or what was the highest rank in the fire base?
Usually colonels. They had what they call a full
bird colonel, you know, and that was usually the
highest rank on the fire base. uh... what was his
average rotation how long would he be around most
colonels would stay for quite some time they they
were the quote there again lifers and uh... you
know i'd various well both two instances in the
hunter first and the uh... first cab well i only
worked with one colonel in both places so i mean we
didn't have really a turnover of my direct
colonels you know that way they usually stayed
right there the colonel was you know they pretty
much stayed in command of that particular unit,
you know, at that time. Now, were there any
Fragans? And also, what rank did they involve?
Yes, quite a bit. There's more in the lower ranks
with the actual lieutenants, a few captains every
once in a while, but mainly lieutenants. And it
would usually happen either in the field or in the
rear areas after a conflict out in the field,
basically. Usually as far as the instance where in
the field somebody might get shot in the back
rather than a frag. And your fragging instance
happened in your hoochers at night and stuff like
that. They would actually be asleep or somebody
would go through and just drop a frag in your thing.
There was fragging incidents in the local bars and
stuff every once in a while. If they knew a guy would
be in there that they wanted to get, they would
actually frag the whole bar. so it wouldn't be a
direct hit on one particular person. So nobody
could really be blamed for one thing. And then at
that time also, they could blame it on the VC or
local villagers or some shit like that. So, but it,
you know, we knew, you know, the guys that talk bad
about him in the company, they get high on drugs and
they say, I'm going to kill that guy. You know, he's
not going to go back out on another mission with me.
And, you know, next day they got to be dead, you
know. So you knew it happened. Yeah, but nobody
ever proved it or anything. There was never any
court-martials or any direct things from any
instance that I was aware of. Although, we went
through lots of lieutenants up there, especially
in six months. I probably went through eight, nine
lieutenants in six months' time. Among the DMZ? In
the DMZ, yeah. Did you, I guess you didn't have to
work with any shake-and-bake lieutenants when
you were at the first cab? No, not really. I was
working more with the higher officers and, you
know, lifers and stuff, and really didn't see it
that much there. Everybody was more of the
seasoned veteran kind when I was in the first cab
where when I was in the 101st, it was more of the
rookies and the shake and bakes, like you said, and
the guys that really didn't know what they were
doing. They'd just been to a training school and
learned it out of a book. They had no practical
knowledge. When I was working in intelligence,
most intelligence guys had years of service, and a
lot of them had been unarmed for one or two tours. So
I was really the rookie. I was very fortunate to get
in at the right time when I got there. I just was at
the right place at the right time for those deals. I
got real lucky to get actually pulled out of the,
you know, regular, you know, foot soldier type
activity and start flying a little more that way.
As an infantry soldier, who'd you listen to up
along the DMZ and the 103rd? Mostly the sergeants.
Very seldom listen to the officers. Did you
yourself just ignore the officers too? Pretty
much, yeah. Okay. You really... I kind of got taken
under the wing of that sergeant, like I was saying,
and you can tell who knows what. And then you listen
to your own gut feeling, too. You know whether that
lieutenant's telling you the right thing or not.
Now, a lot of guys didn't know, and a lot of guys
died. It's just simple as that. I'm not saying they
were wrong, but at the same time, people died
because of what they told them to do. So, you know, I
never... quote directly disobeyed a direct order
although I would question it a lot of times and say
let's talk about this guys you know or you know some
instances you know they would say do something and
I wouldn't directly do it I would do what I felt was
right within the means of what they were saying
well um I basically just in a day type thing we would
be moving during the day time We would have to walk
so many feet apart, supposedly, and more or less in
a certain pattern. And we had hand signals because
there was no talking or anything like this. So we'd
be going along, and all of a sudden we'd take
incoming fire, sniper fire. We basically hit the
ground initially and spread out. And we would sit
there, and of course the lieutenant would try to
find out where it came from all right then he would
say okay you you and you let's go and you say yeah
wait a minute do we really want to get up and start
running with this guy shooting at us or not and so
you know usually the sergeant would enter act at
that time and say wait a minute wait a minute and the
sergeant would get there and talk to the
lieutenant and they sit there and talk it over and
then we might do something different or if he says
let's go this way I might go that way, but I wouldn't
necessarily go with them. I might do my own little
maneuvering or something like that. I would
basically do what I wanted to do within the means of
what I was told. I reckon that's where you're
tracking. Right, exactly. You're a little bit
more comfortable going away from the group.
Right. I wasn't a loner by any means. I wasn't a
gung-ho guy. I was just trying to stay alive. A lot
of times, we got hit one time and He said he wanted us
all to get up and run. He said, let's pull out, let's
go. And I, you know, I looked at the sergeant and we
both shook our heads and we ain't going nowhere.
You know, and Lieutenant says, let's go, let's go,
let's go. And he said, bye, go. So Lieutenant and
about six guys took off. The other six of us stayed
there. Those guys got killed. Wow. You know, and,
you know, we just knew Our best bet was to stay put
because we had no idea how many enemy were out
there. We didn't know what the force was. We didn't
know where they were. We knew we were being shot at.
We were pinned down. Our best bet was to call an
artillery or just wait them out and find out where
they were and try to, you know, get them. But he
wanted to run, and he ran. He ran right into an
ambush, and they blew him down, man, mowed him all
down. And, you know, as it turned out, we called in
artillery, and the guys pulled back, and then they
flew in and picked us up in a chopper, and we got out
of there without a scratch. So, you know, it's just
common sense more than anything else. The
lieutenants just didn't seem to have it. Did any
higher-ranking officers go out with y'all?
Captain was the highest that ever really directly
went in the field with me. And normally the—
captains yeah the captains you know they
basically you know they would run everything you
know when they were out there and the deal with the
captains usually you know it would be in a large
masses so it would be like a major movement of five
or six squads or whatever in the company so I never
directly personally got associated with the
captains What I saw with the fragging of the
captains was with the sergeants, because your
sergeants and your lieutenants would interact
with the captain basically on their talking. You
know, you'd come in and they'd have little
pow-wows and they'd say, okay, let's go do this.
And usually what would happen was, you know, some
guy's getting short, didn't want to go out on night
patrol or something like that, and the captain
would say, you've got to go. And, you know, I ain't
going nowhere, man. You know, I'm staying in here.
I'm going to go out and get my blow away. So the next
thing you know, the captain got shot or he got
fragged or something, you know. And usually that
would happen with the sergeants more than the
lower rank. Where the lower ranker guys, the
privates, PFCs, whatever, specialists, they
would be the ones that seemed to be taking care of
the lieutenants. So it was kind of a chain of
command type thing that way. What happened? What
do you think happened? Why did this blatant
breakdown of chain of command? Well... I really,
in myself, I personally never got mad enough or
upset enough at anyone to try to shoot them. I
disagreed with them a lot, and I didn't do that many
drugs over there, so I was straight, especially in
the field. But I think drugs might have had a lot to
do with it. A guy would get really doped up on coke or
heroin, be shooting heroin like crazy. And, you
know, he didn't want to go out there and get shot at.
And this guy's telling the direct order to go get
shot. And he might bust him. They might give him
Article 15 or something. So here's this
lieutenant or captain saying, you ain't going out
there, man. You're in trouble. You know, the guy's
all messed up on drugs. So they send him back to the
rear area, bust him. And next time the captain
comes back to the rear area, he's dead. You know, so
a personal vendetta type thing more than anything
else. And, you know, it. It was, I don't know if it
was all drug-related, but the drugs were very,
very prevalent, especially when I was there. They
were trying to stand down and send people home, so
they were actually running drug tests in the
field. I mean, there might be a chopper fly in, and
they pass around the bottles and make you urinate
in them, and if you had drugs in your urine, then
they would pull you out of the field and send you to a
drug rehab center or something like that. And if
that happened, then you got busted. And you
couldn't go home. So the only way you could get back
out of the war to go home was to be clean, period. And
if you wanted any kind of dishonorable or
honorable discharge or anything like that, you
had to be clean. And they told you that up front,
man. You guys get off drugs, get straight if you
want to go home and have any honors or anything. So a
lot of the veterans that are, quote, complaining
they didn't get the right bill or whatever, they
brought it on themselves. I mean, I don't want to
say... Everybody did, but a lot of them had the
choice. I had the choice. Yeah. And, I mean,
concerning drugs and everything else. I mean, I'm
not saying I didn't use drugs, because I did. But I
didn't get hooked on it. I wasn't addicted to it.
But I never knew whether I was going to live until
the next day. And it was there. It was prevalent.
You know, I was young. I was vulnerable. I said, you
know, why not smoke some joints? Why not snort some
coke, you know? Hell, if it feels good, why not do
it? I might not live until tomorrow. But I only did
it in rear areas where I was not affected by my
livelihood of being shot at or whatever. When you
say rear areas, that doesn't include the fire
bases? Not the outer fire bases, no. They had major
base camps in the rear areas. Oh, yes. Yeah, drugs
were everywhere. Well, describe when you say
everywhere. I mean, were they done openly? Oh,
yes. Joints smoked openly? Joints smoked openly.
We had little vials of cocaine that were... Just a
little glass vial with a black lid on them. And, you
know, the guys, it was just pure, I mean, we're
talking pure, pure cocaine. And heroin also. And
you snort the cocaine or you lace your marijuana
with the cocaine and smoke it. And then guys would
shoot up, you know, the medics all had needles and
stuff, so it was very easy to get needles. And you'd
get your heroin and you'd, you know, shoot your
heroin up. And, you know, you'd get just pure vials
of heroin. And you'd buy it, you know, from the
locals, all had it. So, I mean, if you wanted the
stuff, all you had to say, hey, man, yeah, I need
some heroin or whatever, and bam, you had it. Mama
signs, papa signs, every village you walked
through, you could get it. Did that ever occur to
any of the soldiers that probably that money went
to the B.C.? Very possibly. We were told that all
the time. And we were told that, you know, all we
were doing was supporting the B.C. Of course, you
know, a lot of these guys could care less. They just
wanted to support their habit or feel good or
whatever, you know, from that standpoint. Now,
there was a lot of sergeants and lieutenants that
didn't like it. And if you were caught smoking
drugs and doing drugs, you know, they would kick
your rank down and they'd court-martial you and
send you back and stuff like that. So, I mean, you
know, you stood the chance of getting in trouble.
How many sergeants and lieutenants were doing
drugs? I mean, were there... Quite a few. Oh, yeah,
it was very, you know, all the way through the
ranks. Captains did it. I never saw any colonels do
anything. I saw captains and lieutenants smoking
all the time, you know. So it was not, it was
everybody. And kind of there was the ones that did
and the ones that didn't. I mean, I'm not saying
everybody did drugs because everybody didn't.
Personally, I did half the time, half the time I
didn't. So I wasn't real bad, although...
Initially, I didn't smoke or do anything. Then I
got in and got introduced to it. Once I got
introduced to it, every time I went back to the rear
area, I looked forward to it. But I did it while I was
there for a couple of days, and then I got off of it.
Then I'd go out for weeks and weeks at a time, and I
wasn't ever addicted, so I didn't have to have it.
Although, when I'd go back to a fire base in the rear
area or something, I'd smoke some dope and start
some coke and get laid back and some drink and just
totally get blitzed for a couple of days. Then I'd
go back out and fight again. So it sounds like it was
almost accepted among the chain of command
anyhow. Very much so. There again, it wasn't
everybody. I mean, you could get in to the cliques
and do it. But you didn't do it in front of
everybody, although it was done in the open.
Let's see. Where do we go from here, Steve? I guess
with the drugs and also some of the quote unquote
stupidity of the leaders, it definitely looks
like it affected the infantry in the sense that
they didn't really listen. You think maybe both
those things contributed to the breakdown of the
command? Possibly. I think the intelligence of
the person that was there also, the average person
that was an infantry soldier, was not even of high
school education. Did you know the average age of
the Vietnam soldier is 18? I was going to say it
probably wasn't even more than 18 years old, so
most of them didn't even finish high school, or if
they did, barely got out of high school. So they
were not educated. Most of them basically were
from poor families, blacks, Hispanics, were very
prominent in the service. They didn't want to be
there, they didn't care about being there, so I
think the education and just the flat attitude of
the person affected it more than anything else.
Going in, that was their feeling, and they could
care less. Then there was the guys that, I guess I
feel like myself, elite by any means, because
there was a lot of people in my same thing. I was just
an average guy. They got drafted. And just my
common sense and my bringing up made me survive.
But the majority of guys that got killed did it
themselves. I mean, you know, they were just
stupid or they didn't listen. You know, from that
standpoint. And Yeah, you try to work, especially
guys in your squad. You've got six or seven guys
you're working with every day, and this guy's got
to cover your ass as well as you cover his. Okay, so
from that standpoint, you get to be really close to
these guys. But at the same time, you don't want to
get too close because if they get blown away, you
don't want to be personally affected by it. But you
learn about them, you learn their habits, the way
they feel, and the... colored people the blacks
gotten clicks and they did their daps they call it
where they put their hands in their hands and their
feet and all this sort of thing and i mean they
really had their own little thing and you know some
of the colored guys you know you couldn't even get
in with them at all the white guy or you know the
hispanic guy was out totally and you know so you had
to really know them and work with my particular
squad there was i think eight black guys and I got to
know them pretty well and they accepted me and they
realized that I knew what I was doing and you know
from that standpoint I was fortunate and there was
a couple guys you know they'd come and go all the
time there was always movement of people you know
guys would get short and they'd go home and then
guys would get killed or wounded and they'd leave
and they'd always replace them with somebody new
and here comes the new guy doesn't know anything
and usually the first week or so they got there
nobody talk to him and I can you is this oh yeah I mean
good what good one get around it because it was
dangerous yeah yeah they want to try from the well
normally sergeant if anybody would take
initiative to do that would be the sergeant and
that was there again in my case the sergeant really
helped me out he came in and But the average guy
would not even talk to them at all. They just
wouldn't associate with them at all. And your
actual platoon, per se, the turnover was just
phenomenal. Like every week there seemed to be
somebody new. And of course the captains and
lieutenants were always hollering for
replacements needing to fill up the numbers of
people. And we'd go out short all the time because
there'd be a turnover of people. You never know you
know, from one mission to the next, and you have.
Well, this leads up to a question. Do you think that
if y'all just had a smaller number of more
experienced guys, would that have done a, would
y'all have been more effective? I think so.
There's no doubt about that. And it's sort of like
your intelligence unit. Right. It sounds like.
Right. Those people are. Correct me if I'm wrong,
but did y'all work in smaller groups with the
intelligence unit? Definitely. Definitely,
yeah, you know, four, three, four-man groups, and
kind of like a special services or, you know, Green
Beret, whatever you want to call them. They were
more experienced, better trained, more time in
service, more time in country, whatever. And, you
know, they knew what they were doing, where the
average, you know, infantry grunt did not. And
you're exactly right, but they were going for the
numbers of bodies and firepower with the
companies and the platoons. And, you know, so from
that standpoint, you know, they'd feel that
they'd send 50 people out there, you know, they
felt they would be better rather than send 10 that
were qualified. So, you know, if you know what I
mean. So they were fighting the number game more
than anything else at that stage of the game. And,
you know, they felt that if, you know, the enemy saw
50 guys coming with rifles, they'd run. Or if they
saw 10 guys coming, they might try to stay there and
fight them and ambush them. your personal opinion
on that? I think it would have been more effective
with more trained personnel. I think the training
was terrible for the average infantry soldier.
Okay. And, you know, they were not properly
trained to go fight in a war. There's no doubt in my
mind. Vietnam War? Vietnam War. Any war. Any war.
Okay. I really... The training was not there. And
now, you know, it's a situation... Yes, I knew the
basics. You know, everybody got the basics.
But... I mean, you walk into Vietnam, I mean,
you're just like going cold turkey. You don't know
nothing. I mean, you know, you're sitting there
like, oh, wow, here I am. I'm in the middle of
nowhere. I got a gun, you know. You don't know what
you're looking for. You don't know what the enemy
looks like. You don't know what tactics you're
supposed to be using. You don't know anything.
And, you know, I don't know what the actual
statistic was, but I would say the average
infantry soldier died within the first three or
four months he was in country. I mean, if they lived
three months, they usually made it through their
tour. Yeah. Also said the same for lieutenants.
Right, exactly. If they could make it for the first
two or three months in country, then they survived
the whole tour. And that's why people came back. I
mean, in all honesty, if I wouldn't have been
married and the war wouldn't have been winding
down, I probably would have wanted to go back. You
know, it's a situation that, not that I enjoyed it
by any means, but at the same time, it got to a point
where I felt comfortable with it. Was there a
certain camaraderie among how it attracted you?
Oh, yes, definitely. The camaraderie was
definitely there. Once you get with people that
know what they're doing and you feel comfortable
with them, then it's very exciting. You never know
what the next day is going to bring. There's always
something different. But you felt comfortable
enough that you'd be able to handle it? Oh, yes,
definitely. This is going to sort of sidetrack,
but I want to go ahead and do it anyways. What were
your views on war? I mean, like, you know, is it a
Rambo type? Did you ever, before you went to
Vietnam, just your general views on war, if you
even had any, was it a John Wayne type, you know,
shoot them up, shoot the Indians, and we'll always
know? Well, my basic view of war has been more or
less from the movies, you know. And World War II,
World War I, Korea, that sort of thing, where you
basically see these masses of people walking with
their guns and walking over fields shooting at
people. And it's just like a massive overtaking.
And then you're sitting there shooting and you
take a hill or you take a bunker complex or
something like that. Or you see the dive bombers
coming in, dropping their bombs or something like
that. And that's what we were taught war was.
That's the way I grew up, knowing what war was. You
play Army or something with your little model men
and stuff, and you got this line of guys here and a
line of guys there, and they just sit there and
shoot at each other, that sort of thing. So this
type of war was not like that at all. It was more of a
guerrilla. You never really could see your enemy
that much, and it definitely wasn't the masses
overtaking type thing where you just walk up and
start shooting. And, of course, you know, you go
all the way back to the original Minutemen and
stuff like that, and you hear all these new
Redcoats are coming here. They come walking and
shooting the thing, and you're sitting there
shooting them, you know, the war between the
states and everything else. You know, that's the
type of battles you see where just a line of people
running and each other shooting, you know. It just
wasn't like that. So from that standpoint, that's
what I envisioned it to be. Okay. And so when you get
there and you walk into this jungle and you're
sitting there looking around, And then you can't
see 20 feet in front of you. You say, I can't see
nobody. How the hell am I going to shoot them?